---
title: Unikraft Data Privacy Policy
datetime: 2021-12-01T22:56
enableToc: false
---

## Unikraft Data Privacy Policy

Data protection is of a particularly high priority for the management of the
Unikraft UG (haftungsbeschränkt) (simply "Unikraft").  The use of the online
websites by Unikraft are possible without any indication of personal data;
however, if a user or data subject wants to use special enterprise services via
our website, processing of personal data could become necessary.  If the
processing of personal data is necessary and there is no statutory basis for
such processing, we generally obtain consent from the data subject.

The processing of personal data, such as the name, address, e-mail address, or
telephone number of a data subject shall always be in line with the General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR), and in accordance with the country-specific data
protection regulations applicable to by Unikraft.  By means of this data
protection declaration, our enterprise would like to inform the general public
of the nature, scope, and purpose of the personal data we collect, use and
process.  Furthermore, data subjects are informed, by means of this data
protection declaration, of the rights to which they are entitled.


As the controller, Unikraft has implemented numerous technical and
organizational measures to ensure the most complete protection of personal data
processed through this website.  However, web-based data transmissions may in
principle have security gaps, so absolute protection may not be guaranteed.  For
this reason, every data subject is free to transfer personal data to us via
alternative means, e.g. by traditional mail.

## 1.  Definitions

The data protection declaration of Unikraft is based on the terms used by the
European legislator for the adoption of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR).  Our data protection declaration should be legible and understandable
for the general public, as well as our customers and business partners.  To
ensure this, we would like to first explain the terminology used.

In this data protection declaration, we use, inter alia, the following terms:

1.  ### Personal data

    Personal data means any information relating to an identified or
    identifiable natural person ("data subject").  An identifiable natural
    person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular
    by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number,
    location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to
    the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social
    identity of that natural person.

2.  ### Data subject

    Data subject is any identified or identifiable natural person, whose
    personal data is processed by the controller responsible for the processing.

3.  ### Processing

    Processing is any operation or set of operations which is performed on
    personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by automated
    means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage,
    adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by
    transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or
    combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.

4.  ### Restriction of processing

    Restriction of processing is the marking of stored personal data with the
    aim of limiting their processing in the future.

5.  ### Profiling

    Profiling means any form of automated processing of personal data consisting
    of the use of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to
    a natural person, in particular to analyse or predict aspects concerning
    that natural person's performance at work, economic situation, health,
    personal preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location or
    movements.

6.  ### Pseudonymisation

    Pseudonymisation is the processing of personal data in such a manner that
    the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject
    without the use of additional information, provided that such additional
    information is kept separately and is subject to technical and
    organisational measures to ensure that the personal data are not attributed
    to an identified or identifiable natural person.

7.  ### Controller or controller responsible for the processing

    Controller or controller responsible for the processing is the natural or
    legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly
    with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal
    data; where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by
    Union or Member State law, the controller or the specific criteria for its
    nomination may be provided for by Union or Member State law.

8.  ### Processor

    Processor is a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other
    body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller.

9.  ### Recipient

    Recipient is a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another
    body, to which the personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or
    not.  However, public authorities which may receive personal data in the
    framework of a particular inquiry in accordance with Union or Member State
    law shall not be regarded as recipients; the processing of those data by
    those public authorities shall be in compliance with the applicable data
    protection rules according to the purposes of the processing.

10. ### Third party

    Third party is a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or body
    other than the data subject, controller, processor and persons who, under
    the direct authority of the controller or processor, are authorised to
    process personal data.

11. ### Consent

    Consent of the data subject is any freely given, specific, informed and
    unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a
    statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the
    processing of personal data relating to him or her.

## 2.  Name and Address of the controller

Controller for the purposes of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR),
other data protection laws applicable in Member states of the European Union and
other provisions related to data protection is:

<strong>Unikraft UG (haftungsbeschränkt)</strong><br />
Im Neuenheimer Feld 582<br />
69120 Heidelberg<br />
Germany<br />

Email: info@unikraft.io

Website: www.unikraft.io

## 3.  Cookies

The web pages of Unikraft use cookies.  Cookies are text files that are stored
in a computer system via a web browser.

Many websites and servers use cookies.  Many cookies contain a so-called cookie
ID.  A cookie ID is a unique identifier of the cookie.  It consists of a
character string through which web pages and servers can be assigned to the
specific web browser in which the cookie was stored.  This allows visited
websites and servers to differentiate the individual browser of the data subject
from other web browsers that contain other cookies.  A specific web browser can
be recognized and identified using the unique cookie ID.

Through the use of cookies, Unikraft can provide the users of this website with
more user-friendly services that would not be possible without the cookie
setting.

By means of a cookie, the information and offers on our website can be optimized
with the user in mind.  Cookies allow us, as previously mentioned, to recognize
our website users.  The purpose of this recognition is to make it easier for
users to utilize our website.  The website user that uses cookies, e.g., does
not have to enter access data each time the website is accessed, because this is
taken over by the website, and the cookie is thus stored on the user's computer
system.  Another example is the cookie of a shopping cart in an online shop.
The online store remembers the articles that a customer has placed in the
virtual shopping cart via a cookie.  The data subject may, at any time, prevent
the setting of cookies through our website by means of a corresponding setting
of the web browser used, and may thus permanently deny the setting of cookies.
Furthermore, already set cookies may be deleted at any time via a web browser or
other software programs.  This is possible in all popular web browsers.  If the
data subject deactivates the setting of cookies in the web browser used, not all
functions of our website may be entirely usable.

## 4.  Collection of general data and information

Unikraft’s website collects a series of general data and information when a data
subject or automated system calls up the website.  This general data and
information are stored in the server log files.  Collected may be (1) the
browser types and versions used, (2) the operating system used by the accessing
system, (3) the website from which an accessing system reaches our website
(so-called referrers), (4) the sub-websites, (5) the date and time of access to
the website, (6) an Internet Protocol address (IP address), (7) the Internet
service provider of the accessing system, and (8) any other similar data and
information that may be used in the event of attacks on our information
technology systems.

When using these general data and information, the Unikraft does not draw any
conclusions about the data subject.  Rather, this information is needed to (1)
deliver the content of our website correctly, (2) optimize the content of our
website as well as its advertisement, (3) ensure the long-term viability of our
information technology systems and website technology, and (4) provide law
enforcement authorities with the information necessary for criminal prosecution
in case of a cyber-attack.  Therefore, Unikraft analyzes anonymously collected
data and information statistically, with the aim of increasing the data
protection and data security of our enterprise, and to ensure an optimal level
of protection for the personal data we process.  The anonymous data of the
server log files are stored separately from all personal data provided by a data
subject.

## 5.  Contact possibility via the website

Unikraft’s website contains information that enables a quick electronic contact
to our enterprise, as well as direct communication with us, which also includes
a general address of the so-called electronic mail (e-mail address).  If a data
subject contacts the controller by e-mail or via a contact form, the personal
data transmitted by the data subject are automatically stored.  Such personal
data transmitted on a voluntary basis by a data subject to the data controller
are stored for the purpose of processing or contacting the data subject.  There
is no transfer of this personal data to third parties.

## 6.  Routine erasure and blocking of personal data

The data controller shall process and store the personal data of the data
subject only for the period necessary to achieve the purpose of storage, or as
far as this is granted by the European legislator or other legislators in laws
or regulations to which the controller is subject to.  If the storage purpose is
not applicable, or if a storage period prescribed by the European legislator or
another competent legislator expires, the personal data are routinely blocked or
erased in accordance with legal requirements.

## 7.  Rights of the data subject

1.  ### Right of confirmation

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    obtain from the controller the confirmation as to whether or not personal
    data concerning him or her are being processed.  If a data subject wishes to
    avail himself of this right of confirmation, he or she may, at any time,
    contact any employee of the controller.

2.  ### Right of access

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    obtain from the controller free information about his or her personal data
    stored at any time and a copy of this information.  Furthermore, the European
    directives and regulations grant the data subject access to the following
    information:

    - the purposes of the processing;

    - the categories of personal data concerned;

    - the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have
      been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or
      international organisations;

    - where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be
      stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;

    - the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or
      erasure of personal data, or restriction of processing of personal data
      concerning the data subject, or to object to such processing;

    - the existence of the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory
      authority;

    - where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any
      available information as to their source;

    - the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred
      to in Article 22(1) and (4) of the GDPR and, at least in those cases,
      meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the
      significance and envisaged consequences of such processing for the data
      subject.

    Furthermore, the data subject shall have a right to obtain information as to
    whether personal data are transferred to a third country or to an
    international organisation.  Where this is the case, the data subject shall
    have the right to be informed of the appropriate safeguards relating to the
    transfer.If a data subject wishes to avail himself of this right of access,
    he or she may, at any time, contact any employee of the controller.|

3.  ### Right to rectification

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    obtain from the controller without undue delay the rectification of
    inaccurate personal data concerning him or her.  Taking into account the
    purposes of the processing, the data subject shall have the right to have
    incomplete personal data completed, including by means of providing a
    supplementary statement.

    If a data subject wishes to exercise this right to rectification, he or she
    may, at any time, contact any employee of the controller.

4.  ### Right to erasure (Right to be forgotten)

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data concerning him or
    her without undue delay, and the controller shall have the obligation to
    erase personal data without undue delay where one of the following grounds
    applies, as long as the processing is not necessary:

    - The personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for
      which they were collected or otherwise processed.

    - The data subject withdraws consent to which the processing is based
      according to point (a) of Article 6(1) of the GDPR, or point (a) of
      Article 9(2) of the GDPR, and where there is no other legal ground for the
      processing.

    - The data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) of
      the GDPR and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the
      processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to
      Article 21(2) of the GDPR.

    - The personal data have been unlawfully processed.

    - The personal data must be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in
      Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject.

    - The personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of
      information society services referred to in Article 8(1) of the GDPR.

    If one of the aforementioned reasons applies, and a data subject wishes to
    request the erasure of personal data stored Unikraft, he or she may, at any
    time, contact any employee of the controller.  An employee of Unikraft shall
    promptly ensure that the erasure request is complied with immediately.Where
    the controller has made personal data public and is obliged pursuant to
    Article 17(1) to erase the personal data, the controller, taking account of
    available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable
    steps, including technical measures, to inform other controllers processing
    the personal data that the data subject has requested erasure by such
    controllers of any links to, or copy or replication of, those personal data,
    as far as processing is not required.  An employee of Unikraft will arrange
    the necessary measures in individual cases.

5.  ### Right of restriction of processing

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    obtain from the controller restriction of processing where one of the
    following applies:

    - The accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject, for a
      period enabling the controller to verify the accuracy of the personal
      data.

    - The processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the erasure of the
      personal data and requests instead the restriction of their use instead.

    - The controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of the
      processing, but they are required by the data subject for the
      establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.

    - The data subject has objected to processing pursuant to Article 21(1) of
      the GDPR pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of the
      controller override those of the data subject.

    If one of the aforementioned conditions is met, and a data subject wishes to
    request the restriction of the processing of personal data stored by
    Unikraft, he or she may at any time contact any employee of the controller.
    The employee of Unikraft will arrange the restriction of the processing.

6.  ### Right to data portability

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator,
    to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which was provided to a
    controller, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format.  He
    or she shall have the right to transmit those data to another controller
    without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data have been
    provided, as long as the processing is based on consent pursuant to point
    (a) of Article 6(1) of the GDPR or point (a) of Article 9(2) of the GDPR, or
    on a contract pursuant to point (b) of Article 6(1) of the GDPR, and the
    processing is carried out by automated means, as long as the processing is
    not necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public
    interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.

    Furthermore, in exercising his or her right to data portability pursuant to
    Article 20(1) of the GDPR, the data subject shall have the right to have
    personal data transmitted directly from one controller to another, where
    technically feasible and when doing so does not adversely affect the rights
    and freedoms of others.

    In order to assert the right to data portability, the data subject may at
    any time contact any employee of the Unikraft.

7.  ## Right to object

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    object, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, at any time,
    to processing of personal data concerning him or her, which is based on
    point (e) or (f) of Article 6(1) of the GDPR.  This also applies to profiling
    based on these provisions.

    Unikraft shall no longer process the personal data in the event of the
    objection, unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the
    processing which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the data
    subject, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.

    If the Unikraft processes personal data for direct marketing purposes, the
    data subject shall have the right to object at any time to processing of
    personal data concerning him or her for such marketing.  This applies to
    profiling to the extent that it is related to such direct marketing.  If the
    data subject objects to the Unikraft to the processing for direct marketing
    purposes, the Unikraft will no longer process the personal data for these
    purposes.

    In addition, the data subject has the right, on grounds relating to his or
    her particular situation, to object to processing of personal data
    concerning him or her by the Unikraft for scientific or historical research
    purposes, or for statistical purposes pursuant to Article 89(1) of the GDPR,
    unless the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out
    for reasons of public interest.

    In order to exercise the right to object, the data subject may contact any
    employee of the Unikraft.  In addition, the data subject is free in the
    context of the use of information society services, and notwithstanding
    Directive 2002/58/EC, to use his or her right to object by automated means
    using technical specifications.

8.  ### Automated individual decision-making, including profiling

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator
    not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing,
    including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning him or her, or
    similarly significantly affects him or her, as long as the decision (1) is
    not is necessary for entering into, or the performance of, a contract
    between the data subject and a data controller, or (2) is not authorised by
    Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject and which also
    lays down suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and
    freedoms and legitimate interests, or (3) is not based on the data subject's
    explicit consent.

    If the decision (1) is necessary for entering into, or the performance of, a
    contract between the data subject and a data controller, or (2) it is based
    on the data subject's explicit consent, the Unikraft shall implement
    suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and freedoms and
    legitimate interests, at least the right to obtain human intervention on the
    part of the controller, to express his or her point of view and contest the
    decision.

    If the data subject wishes to exercise the rights concerning automated
    individual decision-making, he or she may, at any time, contact any employee
    of the Unikraft.

9.  ### Right to withdraw data protection consent

    Each data subject shall have the right granted by the European legislator to
    withdraw his or her consent to processing of his or her personal data at any
    time.

    If the data subject wishes to exercise the right to withdraw the consent, he
    or she may, at any time, contact any employee of the Unikraft.


## 8.  Data protection provisions about the application and use of functions from third-party services
    
1.  ### Data protection provisions about the application and use of Matomo

    On this website, the controller has integrated the Matomo component.  Matomo
    is an open-source software tool for web analysis.  Web analysis is the
    collection, gathering and evaluation of data on the behavior of visitors
    from websites.  A web analysis tool collects, inter alia, data on the website
    from which a data subject came to a website (so-called referrer), which
    pages of the website were accessed or how often and for which period of time
    a sub-page was viewed.  A web analysis is mainly used for the optimization of
    a website and the cost-benefit analysis of web advertising.

    The software is operated on the server of the controller, the data
    protection-sensitive log files are stored exclusively on this server.

    The purpose of the Matomo component is the analysis of the visitor flows on
    our website.  The controller uses the obtained data and information, inter
    alia, to evaluate the use of this website in order to compile online
    reports, which show the activities on our web pages.

    Matomo sets a cookie on the information technology system of the data
    subject.  The definition of cookies is explained above.  With the setting of
    the cookie, an analysis of the use of our website is enabled.  With each
    call-up to one of the individual pages of this website, the web browser on
    the information technology system of the data subject is automatically
    through the Matomo component prompted to submit data for the purpose of
    online analysis to our server.  During the course of this technical
    procedure, we obtain knowledge about personal information, such as the IP
    address of the data subject, which serves to understand the origin of
    visitors and clicks.

    The cookie is used to store personal information, such as the access time,
    the location from which access was made, and the frequency of visits to our
    website.  With each visit of our web pages, these personal data, including
    the IP address of the web access used by the data subject, are transferred
    to our server.  These personal data will be stored by us.  We do not forward
    this personal data to third parties.

    The data subject may, as stated above, prevent the setting of cookies
    through our website at any time by means of a corresponding adjustment of
    the web browser used and thus permanently deny the setting of cookies.  Such
    an adjustment to the used web browser would also prevent Matomo from setting
    a cookie on the information technology system of the data subject.  In
    addition, cookies already in use by Matomo may be deleted at any time via a
    web browser or other software programs.

    In addition, the data subject has the possibility of objecting to a
    collection of data relating to a use of this website that are generated by
    Matomo as well as the processing of these data by Matomo and the chance to
    preclude any such.  For this, the data subject must set a "Do Not Track"
    option in the browser.

    With each setting of the opt-out cookie, however, there is the possibility
    that the websites of the controller are no longer fully usable for the data
    subject.

    Further information and the applicable data protection provisions of Matomo
    may be retrieved under https://matomo.org/privacy/.

2.  ### Data protection provisions about the application and use of hyperlinks to Twitter, Github and LinkedIn

    On this website, the controller has integrated links to external social
    media services including Twitter, Github and LinkedIn where Unikraft
    maintains a social presence.  These social media websites are public-access
    services which adhere to their own data protection and privacy policy.
    Unikraft simply provides plain hyperlinks to its presence on these social
    media websites and does not integrate components on their websites provided
    by these external services.  

    Even if the data subject is logged in at the same time on one of these
    external services, they cannot detect with every call-up to Unikraft’s
    website by the data subject and for the entire duration of their stay on our
    website which specific sub-page of our web page was visited by the data
    subject.  There is no information collected through the external service
    component and associated with the respective account of the data subject.
    However, if the data subject clicks on one of the hyperlinks integrated on
    our website, then the external service can determine the referring website
    and can connect this information to the data subjects.

2.  ### Data protection provisions about the application and use of Concourse

    As part of Unikraft’s initiative to foster open-source, Unikraft has
    provided limited public access to its Concourse Continuous Integration and
    Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) system which is hosted at
    https://builds.unikraft.io/.  Concourse is used to build artifacts including
    Unikraft’s products, services and other software and provides status
    tracking of these build processes.  

    For Concourse to work, it integrates with Github to retrieve information
    about the status of public and open-source repositories, including code
    repositories from Pull Requests, status comments from Pull Requests, and
    version control or commit history from Unikraft repositories.  Builds from
    Concourse therefore accesses public repositories with publicly available
    information made available by Github.  Concourse retrieves publicly
    accessible information from Github, including:

    - First and Last names;
    - Email addresses; and,
    - Github Usernames.

    Github’s terms of use and privacy statement can be found online at:
    https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy 

    Authorization to Concourse’s administrative back-end is strictly exclusive
    and does not include a voluntary registration process.  Access is granted on
    a per-user basis and subject to relevant contracts and requires consent from
    all related parties.  

    Logging into the Concourse CI/CD system in itself also relies on Cookies and
    access to Github’s OAuth identity service in order to function properly.  By
    logging into Unikraft’s public instance of Concourse, the data subject will
    be redirected to Github to request access for authorization.  For such data
    subjects, the GitHub username is only stored in Concourse after a successful
    authorization and for the time the subject did not log out or hers or his
    session expired.  Additionally, a Cookie will be set by Concourse to prolong
    access to Concourse containing the following information:

    - The status of whether the User is logged in to Concourse;
    - The Github username and ID associated with the logged in user.

    To address the use of Cookies on the Concourse website, Unikraft requests
    the user to accept the Cookies via the Unikraft Privacy Consent Form (see
    8.e).

3.  ### Data protection provisions about the application and use of Unikraft Privacy Consent Form

    As part of our initiative to be transparent and our interest in making data
    protection a high-priority within Unikraft, we place a Privacy Consent From
    in front of services (e.g., our Concourse deployment (see 8.4.)) which do
    not have the technical ability to embed links to this Privacy Policy and
    Unikraft’s Impressum.  Unikraft’s Privacy Consent Form is hosted at
    https://consent.unikraft.io/ and provides the data subject a way to give
    consent to our Privacy Policy before the data subject continues accessing
    the service.  When the data subject clicks on accepting the conditions, a
    Cookie regarding the consent decision is stored at the data subject’s
    browser and the data subject is forwarded to the actual service.  The Cookie
    is used in order to hide the Unikraft Privacy Consent Form to the data
    subject when he or she accesses further such websites hosted by Unikraft.

9.  Legal basis for the processing

Art.  6(1) lit.  a GDPR serves as the legal basis for processing operations for
which we obtain consent for a specific processing purpose.  If the processing of
personal data is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data
subject is party, as is the case, for example, when processing operations are
necessary for the supply of goods or to provide any other service, the
processing is based on Article 6(1) lit.  b GDPR.  The same applies to such
processing operations which are necessary for carrying out pre-contractual
measures, for example in the case of inquiries concerning our products or
services.  Is our company subject to a legal obligation by which processing of
personal data is required, such as for the fulfillment of tax obligations, the
processing is based on Art.  6(1) lit.  c GDPR.  In rare cases, the processing of
personal data may be necessary to protect the vital interests of the data
subject or of another natural person.  This would be the case, for example, if a
visitor were injured in our company and his name, age, health insurance data or
other vital information would have to be passed on to a doctor, hospital or
other third party.  Then the processing would be based on Art.  6(1) lit.  d GDPR.
Finally, processing operations could be based on Article 6(1) lit.  f GDPR.  This
legal basis is used for processing operations which are not covered by any of
the abovementioned legal grounds, if processing is necessary for the purposes of
the legitimate interests pursued by our company or by a third party, except
where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and
freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data.  Such
processing operations are particularly permissible because they have been
specifically mentioned by the European legislator.  He considered that a
legitimate interest could be assumed if the data subject is a client of the
controller (Recital 47 Sentence 2 GDPR).

## 10.  The legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party

Where the processing of personal data is based on Article 6(1) lit.  f GDPR our
legitimate interest is to carry out our business in favor of the well-being of
all our employees and the shareholders.

## 11.  Period for which the personal data will be stored

The criteria used to determine the period of storage of personal data is the
respective statutory retention period.  After expiration of that period, the
corresponding data is routinely deleted, as long as it is no longer necessary
for the fulfillment of the contract or the initiation of a contract.

## 12.  Provision of personal data as statutory or contractual requirement; Requirement necessary to enter into a contract; Obligation of the data subject to provide the personal data; possible consequences of failure to provide such data

We clarify that the provision of personal data is partly required by law (e.g.,
tax regulations) or can also result from contractual provisions (e.g.,
information on the contractual partner).  Sometimes it may be necessary to
conclude a contract that the data subject provides us with personal data, which
must subsequently be processed by us.  The data subject is, for example, obliged
to provide us with personal data when our company signs a contract with him or
her.  The non-provision of the personal data would have the consequence that the
contract with the data subject could not be concluded.  Before personal data is
provided by the data subject, the data subject must contact any employee.  The
employee clarifies to the data subject whether the provision of the personal
data is required by law or contract or is necessary for the conclusion of the
contract, whether there is an obligation to provide the personal data and the
consequences of non-provision of the personal data.

## 13.  Existence of automated decision-making

As a responsible company, we do not use automatic decision-making or profiling.

## Attribution

This privacy policy has been developed with the specialists for LegalTech at
Willing & Able and adapted by Unikraft UG (haftungsbeschränkt).  The legal texts
contained in our privacy policy have been provided and published by Prof.  Dr.
h.c.  Heiko Jonny Maniero from the German Association for Data Protection and
Christian Solmecke from WBS law.
